Welcome to the next section of our course.
And in this section we are going to talk about message histories.
So this is one of the most important concepts that we need to understand while working with the Lang
chain itself.
Because most of the time we as a user will not be able to perform any action if we don't really have
any context of what we're going to be talking about.
As a follow up question, for instance, if you go to the ChatGPT over here and if I'm going to ask
a question here saying, uh, write a simple, uh, lang chain code, uh, for, uh, let's say a chat
prompt over here.
So you will notice that the ChatGPT is going to immediately write some code for me over here.
So this is pretty cool.
But now let's say if I want to add or ask a follow up question over here, uh, saying can you write
the same with, uh, prompt, uh, template, uh, over here.
And you will notice that now the ChatGPT can immediately change the code from the chat prompt template
to prompt template over here.
So the reason why this is modifying over here is because it now knows the context of my earlier question,
and it is able to perform the additional operation in my second question.
So it knows the context of the first question.
That's the reason why the second question, even though I did not ask a lot of details, I could able
to just ask like a follow up question.
This is true for most of the operations that we do in the ChatGPT over here, and we wanted to implement
this similar kind of operation with our, uh, our application as well.
But if I wanted to do that, you can see that for now.
While we as a user ask any question from Lang Chain by passing a chat prompt template, and then if
you send it to the LM, it can able to respond for the first time.
And if you try to ask a follow up question, the model will not understand who you are and there won't
be any response, as the large language model has got no context on it.
So in order to resolve this particular problem of the LM with no context, we need to have what is called
as the message history or the chat message history.
So how do we really implement the chat message history and how we can make that happen in the long chain?
Well, if you can see this particular diagram it will make you more sense over here.
So as you can see, this particular user will have a session ID of 1 to 3, which is pretty much like
how I did in the ChatGPT just now.
So I will be sending a message to Long Chain and then as a prompt template I will be sending a message
to queue model.
It is just going to respond as as usual.
But now the same user the session ID one two, three.
If is going to be asking a follow up question, you will notice that this time the chat prompt template
will go to the message history before it performs any action of sending the message to the model directly.
So you'll notice that every single time before it's going to send any message to the local large language
model, it is going to first get the context or the history information, and then it is going to perform
the operation.
So this way you will know that this particular model will always have a history information before it
gets to answer the next question.
So it could be a follow up question, or it could be a new question altogether.
It doesn't matter, but we will be every single time going to the message history to get what is really
the earlier question was before answering the new question.
So if it is a follow up question, then LM will have the context of the question because it will have
access to the earlier questions in the message history over here.
And that's the reason why the RLM could able to serve the answer for you as a follow up questions answer
which was not something possible earlier.
And now you could able to achieve that over here.
And that is exactly what we are going to be doing in this particular section.
So we are going to see how we could able to achieve the message history operation in this particular
section.
So in order to do that, I have already created a simple chat history section folder here, and also
created the the Jupyter notebook here.
And I have also loaded everything which is required like the dot env file.
Um, and also the LM object is all ready for us to rock and roll.
And now all we have to do it is start writing the code over here for the chat message history.
So in order for me to work with the chat message history, we are going to be using pretty much exactly
what we are doing in our last section with the Runnables.
If you remember over here, we are going to be using the same runnables over here, but just that we
are going to be using something called as runnable dot history.
So you see that we were doing this long chain core dot runnables over here.
We also have got something called as history as you can see over here.
And this is what we are going to be using in this particular section.
So I'll tell you what I really have to do over here.
So the first thing which we need is going to be something we have already did over here.
So probably I'm just going to copy all these things that we have did earlier, and I'll paste it over
here to save some strokes.
Uh, and then I'm going to be importing a couple of more libraries over here.
So the first one is going to be the Lang chain core dot chat history.
As you can see this one.
And I'm going to import what is called as the base chat message History.
And then I'm also going to import the long chain core dot Runnables dot history.
And from here I'm going to import what is called as runnable with message history.
Right.
And finally I also need to import the long chain chat message history, which is going to be sitting
from the long chain community.
So I'm going to say long chain, uh, community.
And you see that the long chain community is not there over here for me, which means we need to install
this particular package for the very first time in this particular section.
So I'm going to add a code over here.
And I'm going to do pip install lang chain underscore community.
And let me run this particular installation over here, and you will see that the long chain community
is going to be installed for me.
So make sure that you do install it for the first time, because without that it is not going to work.
And once you have it, you can then do long chain community.
And you see that we have got a new package like long chain community.
And over here we have got something called as the chat um, message histories, which is also required
for our historical operation that we are going to be doing, like the message history operation that
we are going to do.
So I'm going to say import and chat message history.
So these are the libraries which are really required for us to do the first few operation in the chat
message operation.
Well we have all these libraries now.
We are pretty much ready to write the first code, but make sure that you first install all these libraries
before we can start writing the code.
Catch you in the next lecture where we are going to be starting to write the code for the message history
itself.